docs/content/docs/03-strategy-lab/execution-plugins.mdx, before:

---
title: Execution Plugins
description: Build custom execution algorithms in WebAssembly and load them without touching the core orchestrator.
---

## Why WebAssembly Plugins?

`ExecutionHint::Plugin` lets a strategy delegate its order lifecycle to a WebAssembly module. The runtime keeps persistence, panic handling, and risk checks in Rust, but loads the execution logic dynamically, so teams can iterate on proprietary algos without recompiling `tesser-cli`.

## Author a Plugin

1. **Scaffold a crate**:
   ```bash
   cargo new chase-execution --lib
   cd chase-execution
   ```
2. **Update `Cargo.toml`**:
   ```toml
   [lib]
   crate-type = ["cdylib"]

   [dependencies]
   rust_decimal = "1"
   tesser-wasm = { path = "../../tesser-wasm", features = ["guest"] }
   ```
3. **Implement the trait** – the SDK exposes the data types plus the `export_plugin!` macro:
   ```rust
   use rust_decimal::Decimal;
   use tesser_wasm::{
       export_plugin, ExecutionPlugin, PluginChildOrderAction, PluginInitContext,
       PluginOrderRequest, PluginOrderType, PluginResult, PluginSide, PluginTick,
   };

   #[derive(Default)]
   struct ChasePlugin {
       symbol: String,
       side: PluginSide,
       remaining: Decimal,
       last_price: Decimal,
   }

   impl ExecutionPlugin for ChasePlugin {
       fn init(&mut self, ctx: PluginInitContext) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           self.symbol = ctx.signal.symbol;
           self.side = ctx.signal.side;
           self.remaining = ctx.signal.target_quantity;
           self.last_price = ctx.risk.last_price;
           Ok(PluginResult::new())
       }

       fn on_tick(&mut self, tick: PluginTick) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           self.last_price = tick.price;
           Ok(PluginResult::new())
       }

       fn on_timer(&mut self) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           if self.remaining <= Decimal::ZERO {
               return Ok(PluginResult::new().completed());
           }
           let slice = self.remaining.min(Decimal::new(1, 1));
           self.remaining -= slice;
           let request = PluginOrderRequest {
               symbol: self.symbol.clone(),
               side: self.side,
               order_type: PluginOrderType::Limit,
               quantity: slice,
               price: Some(self.last_price),
               trigger_price: None,
               time_in_force: None,
               client_order_id: None,
               take_profit: None,
               stop_loss: None,
               display_quantity: None,
           };
           Ok(PluginResult::new().with_order(PluginChildOrderAction::Place(request)))
       }
   }

   export_plugin!(ChasePlugin);
   ```
4. **Build for WASI**:
   ```bash
   rustup target add wasm32-wasi # once per workstation
   cargo build --release --target wasm32-wasi
   ```
   Your module is emitted at `target/wasm32-wasi/release/chase_execution.wasm`.

> Tip: `examples/plugin-chase` in the repo provides a complete, documented sample.

## Configure the Runtime

1. **Point Tesser at your plugins** – set `live.plugins_dir` in `config/default.toml` or pass `--plugins-dir` to `tesser live run`. The orchestrator loads `<plugins_dir>/<name>.wasm`.
   ```toml
   [live]
   plugins_dir = "./plugins"
   ```
2. **Drop the compiled module** into that directory (rename if desired).
3. **Attach the hint** when emitting a signal:
   ```rust
   use serde_json::json;
   use tesser_core::{ExecutionHint, Signal};

   let signal = Signal::new(symbol, SignalKind::EnterLong, 0.7).with_hint(
       ExecutionHint::Plugin {
           name: "chase_execution".into(),
           params: json!({ "clip_size": "0.25" }),
       },
   );
   ctx.publish(signal);
   ```

The orchestrator persists plugin state just like TWAP/VWAP. If the process restarts, the module is re-instantiated and its `restore` callback receives the previous snapshot.

## Diagnostics & Best Practices

- **Logging** – return strings in `PluginResult.logs` to surface structured messages in the host logs (`target=plugin`).
- **State size** – keep snapshot payloads small (JSON is stored in SQLite/Lmdb alongside other algos).
- **Validation** – keep risk-sensitive checks in Rust. Plugins should assume their child orders still run through the standard pre-trade filters.
- **Versioning** – ship new modules alongside existing ones and switch strategies to the new `name` when you are ready; the engine caches compiled components, so hot swaps are fast.

With these pieces in place you can iterate on execution logic without touching the monorepo or interrupting a live session.

Commit message:

docs: expand execution plugin guide

docs/content/docs/03-strategy-lab/execution-plugins.mdx, after:

---
title: Execution Plugins
description: Build custom execution algorithms in WebAssembly and load them without touching the core orchestrator.
---

## Why WebAssembly Plugins?

`ExecutionHint::Plugin` lets a strategy delegate its order lifecycle to a WebAssembly module. The runtime keeps persistence, panic handling, and risk checks in Rust, but loads the execution logic dynamically, so teams can iterate on proprietary algos without recompiling `tesser-cli`.

## Architecture at a glance

- **Host responsibilities** – Order orchestration, capital tracking, reconciliation, and crash-safe state management remain in Rust. The orchestrator also owns rate limits and risk guards so every child order emitted by a plugin is still validated centrally.
- **Plugin responsibilities** – Compute whether/when to place, amend, or finish child orders for a specific signal. Plugins see a slice of the strategy context (signal metadata + risk snapshot) and react to ticks, fills, and timer heartbeats.
- **ABI** – The [`tesser-wasm`](../../../tesser-wasm/README.md) crate defines the shared types (`PluginSignal`, `PluginRiskContext`, `PluginResult`, …) and provides the `ExecutionPlugin` trait behind the `guest` feature. Each plugin compiles into a WASI module that exports the callbacks generated via `wit-bindgen`.

### Callback lifecycle

| Callback | When it's invoked | Typical uses |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `init(ctx)` | After the module is loaded and just before the first action | Deserialize custom params, seed state from the signal/risk context, swap into warm-up mode. |
| `on_tick(tick)` | Whenever the orchestrator forwards a market data tick relevant to this signal | Reprice child orders, recalculate remaining quantity, update trailing anchors. |
| `on_fill(fill)` | After a child order fills | Reconcile remaining target quantity, adjust inventory risk models, trigger completion thresholds. |
| `on_timer()` | Periodic heartbeat (configurable in the host) | Drip slices for TWAP-like behavior, kick off retries if no ticks arrive, enforce timeouts. |
| `snapshot()` / `restore(state)` | Host persistence boundary | Keep lightweight JSON describing your internal state so restarts are seamless. |

Each callback returns a `PluginResult` that can accumulate one or more `PluginChildOrderRequest`s and optional log lines that will surface under the `plugin` tracing target.

## Author a Plugin

1. **Scaffold a crate**:
   ```bash
   cargo new chase-execution --lib
   cd chase-execution
   ```
2. **Update `Cargo.toml`**:
   ```toml
   [lib]
   crate-type = ["cdylib"]

   [dependencies]
   rust_decimal = "1"
   tesser-wasm = { path = "../../tesser-wasm", features = ["guest"] }
   ```
3. **Implement the trait** – the SDK exposes the data types plus the `export_plugin!` macro:
   ```rust
   use rust_decimal::Decimal;
   use tesser_wasm::{
       export_plugin, ExecutionPlugin, PluginChildOrderAction, PluginInitContext,
       PluginOrderRequest, PluginOrderType, PluginResult, PluginSide, PluginTick,
   };

   #[derive(Default)]
   struct ChasePlugin {
       symbol: String,
       side: PluginSide,
       remaining: Decimal,
       last_price: Decimal,
   }

   impl ExecutionPlugin for ChasePlugin {
       fn init(&mut self, ctx: PluginInitContext) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           self.symbol = ctx.signal.symbol;
           self.side = ctx.signal.side;
           self.remaining = ctx.signal.target_quantity;
           self.last_price = ctx.risk.last_price;
           Ok(PluginResult::new())
       }

       fn on_tick(&mut self, tick: PluginTick) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           self.last_price = tick.price;
           Ok(PluginResult::new())
       }

       fn on_timer(&mut self) -> Result<PluginResult, tesser_wasm::PluginError> {
           if self.remaining <= Decimal::ZERO {
               return Ok(PluginResult::new().completed());
           }
           let slice = self.remaining.min(Decimal::new(1, 1));
           self.remaining -= slice;
           let request = PluginOrderRequest {
               symbol: self.symbol.clone(),
               side: self.side,
               order_type: PluginOrderType::Limit,
               quantity: slice,
               price: Some(self.last_price),
               trigger_price: None,
               time_in_force: None,
               client_order_id: None,
               take_profit: None,
               stop_loss: None,
               display_quantity: None,
           };
           Ok(PluginResult::new().with_order(PluginChildOrderAction::Place(request)))
       }
   }

   export_plugin!(ChasePlugin);
   ```
4. **Build for WASI**:
   ```bash
   rustup target add wasm32-wasi # once per workstation
   cargo build --release --target wasm32-wasi
   ```
   Your module is emitted at `target/wasm32-wasi/release/chase_execution.wasm`.

> Tip: `examples/plugin-chase` in the repo provides a complete, documented sample.

## Configure the Runtime

1. **Point Tesser at your plugins** – set `live.plugins_dir` in `config/default.toml` or pass `--plugins-dir` to `tesser live run`. The orchestrator loads `<plugins_dir>/<name>.wasm`.
   ```toml
   [live]
   plugins_dir = "./plugins"
   ```
2. **Drop the compiled module** into that directory (rename if desired).
3. **Attach the hint** when emitting a signal:
   ```rust
   use serde_json::json;
   use tesser_core::{ExecutionHint, Signal, SignalKind};

   let signal = Signal::new(symbol, SignalKind::EnterLong, 0.7).with_hint(
       ExecutionHint::Plugin {
           name: "chase_execution".into(),
           params: json!({ "clip_size": "0.25" }),
       },
   );
   ctx.publish(signal);
   ```

The orchestrator persists plugin state just like TWAP/VWAP. If the process restarts, the module is re-instantiated and its `restore` callback receives the previous snapshot.

## Diagnostics & Best Practices

- **Logging** – return strings in `PluginResult.logs` to surface structured messages in the host logs (`target=plugin`). Include enough context (symbol, slice size, etc.) to make post-mortems useful.
- **State discipline** – keep `snapshot` payloads compact and deterministic; they are stored in SQLite/Lmdb next to other execution algos. Validate your `restore` path with malformed payloads during testing to ensure graceful failure.
- **Validation** – keep fat-finger and compliance checks in Rust. Plugins should treat order creation as a request; the orchestrator still enforces the central risk policy.
- **Versioning** – ship new modules alongside existing ones and switch strategies to the new `name` when you are ready; the engine caches compiled components, so hot swaps are fast. For long-running sessions, drop in the new module, update the signal hint, and let the orchestrator spin up the new logic alongside the existing one.
- **Local iteration** – instantiate your plugin via `tesser_wasm::guest::PluginRuntime` in unit tests to replay JSON fixtures, or use the `examples/plugin-chase` crate as a template for integration tests.
- **Distribution** – store the compiled WASM artifacts in an internal registry or artifact bucket and deploy them with the same rigor as other production binaries. Track the `params` schema per module revision to keep change management clear.

With these pieces in place you can iterate on execution logic without touching the monorepo or interrupting a live session. See [`tesser-wasm/README.md`](../../../tesser-wasm/README.md) or the public docs at [tesser.space](https://www.tesser.space/docs/03-strategy-lab/execution-plugins) for additional reference material.
