docs/content/docs/04-operations/backtesting.mdx, before:

---
title: Backtesting Engine
description: Replay months of data through the exact same event loop.
---

The backtester wires the data layer, strategies, and execution logic exactly like the live system—the only difference is the connector (`tesser-paper`) that simulates fills deterministically.

## Running a Scenario

```bash
cargo run -p tesser-cli -- \
    backtest run \
    --strategy-config examples/strategies/sma_cross.toml \
    --data examples/data/btcusdt_1m_sample.csv \
    --mode candle
```

Switch to `--mode tick` and provide order-book snapshots when you need depth-aware simulations.

### Streaming Tick Mode from Flight Recorder

Phase 4.1 introduces a streaming tick engine that replays the same Parquet assets produced by the flight recorder. Instead of converting JSONL blobs, point `--lob-data` at the recorder root and the CLI will merge ticks, order-book snapshots, and depth deltas on the fly:

```bash
cargo run -p tesser-cli -- \
    backtest run \
    --strategy-config strategies/pegged.toml \
    --mode tick \
    --lob-data data/flight_recorder \
    --quantity 0.01
```

The backtester now consumes an async stream of events, so it only keeps the active snapshot and pending fills in memory even when you replay months of high-frequency data.

## Reports

- Equity curve + drawdown
- Fill breakdown by hint (VWAP, Pegged, etc.)
- Latency histograms for strategy handlers

All reports serialize to JSON so you can feed them into your research notebook or CI.

Commit message:

feat(backtest): implement queue and latency simulation

docs/content/docs/04-operations/backtesting.mdx, after:

---
title: Backtesting Engine
description: Replay months of data through the exact same event loop.
---

The backtester wires the data layer, strategies, and execution logic exactly like the live system—the only difference is the connector (`tesser-paper`) that simulates fills deterministically.

## Running a Scenario

```bash
cargo run -p tesser-cli -- \
    backtest run \
    --strategy-config examples/strategies/sma_cross.toml \
    --data examples/data/btcusdt_1m_sample.csv \
    --mode candle
```

Switch to `--mode tick` and provide order-book snapshots when you need depth-aware simulations.

### Streaming Tick Mode from Flight Recorder

The streaming tick engine has been added in v0.9.1 that replays the same Parquet assets produced by the flight recorder. Instead of converting JSONL blobs, point `--lob-data` at the recorder root and the CLI will merge ticks, order-book snapshots, and depth deltas on the fly:

```bash
cargo run -p tesser-cli -- \
    backtest run \
    --strategy-config strategies/pegged.toml \
    --mode tick \
    --lob-data data/flight_recorder \
    --quantity 0.01
```

The backtester now consumes an async stream of events, so it only keeps the active snapshot and pending fills in memory even when you replay months of high-frequency data.

### Queue + Latency Simulation

The streaming engine now understands how long your order sits in the matching queue and when it actually lands on the book. Use these flags to model more realistic fills:

```bash
cargo run -p tesser-cli -- \
    backtest run \
    --strategy-config strategies/pegged.toml \
    --mode tick \
    --lob-data data/flight_recorder \
    --sim-latency-ms 75 \
    --sim-queue-model conserv
```

- `--sim-latency-ms` adds a round-trip delay to limit submissions and cancels before they touch the book.
- `--sim-queue-model conserv` tracks the full resting size ahead of you at each price level. Switch to `optimistic` to assume you always rest at the front of the queue.

Every tick event advances the virtual clock so cancels, conditional triggers, and queue consumption occur exactly when they would have during the original session.

## Reports

- Equity curve + drawdown
- Fill breakdown by hint (VWAP, Pegged, etc.)
- Latency histograms for strategy handlers

All reports serialize to JSON so you can feed them into your research notebook or CI.
